refactor: find middleground between imperative and models (#25)
delta-incubator/dat: contributing.md

## Adding reader tests

Reader tests come in two flavors:

 1. Generated tables, which are specified from PySpark code in `dat/generated_tables.py`.

>  2. External tables, which are checked in directly at `external-tables`.

Reviewer: can we just remove all references to external tables, until we actually know what they are and what we expect to do to them?

Author: Yes, I had intended to but missed this :)

Both tables types have their full test data checked into the `out/reader_tests/` folder.

## Writer tests

TBD

## Installation

You can install the dependencies for this project by running `poetry install`.  Run `poetry shell` to activate the virtual environment.    If `poetry shell` does not activate the environment on your machine, you may need to run this command:

```
source "$( poetry env list --full-path | grep Activated | cut -d' ' -f1 )/bin/activate"
```

Run `python -m dat.main` to make sure everything is working properly.  You should see instructions on how to use DAT, including the commands you can run.

## How to build tables

Create the reference tables with `python -m dat.main write-generated-reference-tables`.

This will create reference tables as follows:

```
out/
  tables/
    generated/
      reference_table_1/
        delta/
          _delta_log/
            000.json
            001.json
          parquet_files
        parquet/

>           table_content.parquet

Reviewer: this is out of date. there's no `latest`, `v1` etc folders.

also there's no `case_metadata.json`

        table_metadata.json
      reference_table_2/
        ...
```

Let's take a look at the contents of `reference_table_1`:

* `delta`: This is a Delta Lake table.  It consists of a transaction log (`_delta_log`) and data stored in Parquet files.
* `parquet/table_content.parquet`: Contains all the data that should be in the Delta Lake table when it's read.  This is the expected value.
* `table_metadata.json`: contains the metadata that the `_delta_log` is expected to contain.  This is another expected value.

For each reference table, you should run these checks:

* Read the Delta Lake and make sure it contains the same data as `parquet/table_content.parquet`

> * Read the Delta Lake transaction log and make sure it contains the same data as `table_metadata.json`

Reviewer: can we be more specific about exactly what `table_metadata.json` contains?
is it
a) the metadata action of the latest version of the table? e.g. schema information?
b) the entire ... delta log .... all put in one json?
c) the same as b.... but compressed ...so that `Add A, Remove A` isn't contained since `A` does not exist in the latest table version.

Author: ```suggestion
* (optional) Read the Delta Lake transaction log and check the table attributes (such as `min_reader_version`) read match the expected values in `table_metadata.json`.
```

## Example reader integration tests

Here's an example reader integration test:

```python
import chispa

# check table content

> actual_df = spark.read.format("delta").load("out/tables/generated/reference_table_1/delta")

Reviewer: `/latest`
